# Bowers-Center-Tool

The Bowers Center Fitness Center Busyness Tracker is a simulated tool with two separate functionalities. First, users can see the number of current visitors to the Fitness Center change in real time. This functionality allows students to determine how busy the Fitness Center is, and help them plan their visit accordingly. Second, a chart is displayed showing the busyness data from the previous week. This functionality also helps visitors determine how to plan their visit by knowing when peak-visiting periods of the day occur as well as less busy times.
**Real-time visitor count**
The real-time visitor count is a complete Javascript functionality. For simulation purposes, two buttons appear on the user's screen: one for "checking in" at the Fitness Center, and one for "checking out" and leaving the Fitness Center. In practical use, this system would involve students swiping their ID card in when they arrive and again when they leave the Fitness Center. In 30-minute time intervals, the current number of visitors in the Fitness Center is saved in a local list, and at the end of each day, this list is sent to the database along with the coorelating date and day of the week. This data, in turn, is used to display the historical data in the chart section of the website.
**Busyness Chart**
In the Busyness Chart, data is displayed in a line chart to show the busyness of the Fitness Center. Data is saved in 30-minute increments, and it is displayed this way as well. Data is pulled directly from the database when the website is loaded, and users can change the day of the week as well. The data is saved in the database in JSON format. When the user calls for the chart to be displayed, the API decodes the format into a list, which is what is ultimately displayed on the site. Upon loading the website, the chart will automatically display the data for the current day of the week. For example, if the website is opened on a Friday, the chart will automatically display the data from the previous Friday.

**API**
Bowers.php serves as the sole API for this project. 2 separate functions occur in this file. First, data is received from the bowers.js file and uploaded to the database. This data includes the date, the day of the week, and the count for that particular day. The JavaScript file is designed to upload this data at 11:00pm each day. The second function pulls data from the database and displays it onto the webpage in the form of a line chart. The API pulls the data based on the day of the week and its corresponding count data for that day.

**Database**
The database consists of one table. This table includes "date", which holds the date in yyyy-dd-mm format, "day", which holds the day of the week that corresponds with the date, and "busy", which holds the busyness data in JSON format.
